Ticketing
Description of class: The ticketing class represents a ticket that can be purchased and utilized by a customer. 
Description of attributes: The ticket class has several attributes. First, there is the Ticket ID, which identifies the customer’s ticket within our database. The price attribute is the cost corresponding to the ticket, which is the amount the customer paid and the amount they will be refunded if desired. There are several identifier attributes including the customer’s seat number and theater number. There are also descriptive attributes including the movie title that is issued when purchasing tickets, followed by the movie rating and date/time of the movie screening.
Description of operations: One operation that can be performed is a method to update ticket information. This would allow for the ticket status to be updated for instances such as if the ticket were expired and no longer valid. The ticket updating operation can also alter the seat number, ticket price, etc. Another operation that can be performed is a method to generate a barcode for the ticket, which can be scanned by the customer to enter their movie screening. 
Customer
Description of class: The customer class represents a customer who is visiting the theater with an online profile.
Description of attributes: The customer class has multiple attributes that refer to the characteristics of a customer’s OTTS. Identification is key in a customer’s profile. Therefore, identifier attributes include the customer’s name, which the customer chose to sign up with and the customer’s birthday, which the customer inputs as their month and day of birth for beneficiaries. The customer will also be able to input contact information, which can be done using the phone number and email address attributes. Lastly, the movie theater offers a membership system, which can be accessed through the customer class. Membership attributes include membership status and membership type. 
Description of operations: The customer class has several operations that provide the customer with functionalities to access. One operation would allow the customer to purchase a ticket through the OTTS. Customers may also access the operation to view purchased tickets, which is followed by another operation option to cancel a ticket and receive a refund. 
Movie
Description of class: The movie class represents a movie being shown at the movie theater.
Description of attributes: There are numerous attributes that refer to a movie being screened at a theater. These attributes identify each movie being screened. Attributes include title, which is simply the title of the movie, genre, which lists what genre the movie may fall under (options include action, comedy, drama, etc), duration, which lists the duration of the movie in minutes, and director, which lists the director of the movie. These attributes allow for search filtering.
Description of operations: The movie class lists movies as well as their information, which may need to be modified due to errors or new information being added. Therefore an operation of this class is to update movie information. 
