8.) DiscountCalculation
Description: This test case verifies that upon selecting tickets and seats, the system will apply any relevant discount amounts to the user’s total calculations. The OTTS offers discounts for military, students, seniors, and children under the age of 8. This test case is dedicated to unit testing. It will ensure that if the user falls within the age range or the eligibility criteria, the corresponding discount amount will be applied to the total price of the tickets selected. 
Test Sets/Vectors: Different tests should be performed to ensure that the discount calculations are accurately applied. The test will be done on user’s with a military background, users that are able to provide student information, for seniors above the age of 65, and for children under the age of 8. An approach to this is to perform several tests that include different tickets and different selections of movies to verify that the final calculation after discounts have been applied is accurate. The test will also cover authorization of different user eligibility. The test will ensure that the user provides sufficient information to qualify for different discounts, such as a student ID to receive the student discount, an ID to qualify for the senior or child discounts, and a military ID to receive a military discount. An approach to this can be to test the validity of different information provided by user’s and ensure that the verification is accurate. 
How does it cover the targeted features?: This test covers several targeted features and uses different interfaces to ensure that the function accurately works. It supports the functionality that the OTTS must handle different discount amounts. It ensures that the ticket booking interface successfully works with the payment interface. It also ensures that the user data it pulls from the database is accurate regarding the user’s eligibility for differing discount amounts depending on the information stored in the user data. 
9.) TroubleshootingInformation
Description: This test case will verify that the system will log certain events and errors that occur in the OTTS in order to refer to them for troubleshooting. It should verify that the information logged is accurate, including the events and the timestamps of the events. It will also verify that the events are logged in the correct location in the database. This test is designed to be a system test that verifies that the system accurately logs relevant information. 
Test Sets/Vectors: There are several tests that should be performed for this test case. One test can be performed by performing several user actions, such as logging in, selecting tickets, selecting teats, inputting reviews, and completing a transaction. Upon completing user actions, a test should be done to verify that all the information was entered correctly into the database with accurate information and correct timestamps. Another test should be performed to check that errors are logged as well. Several errors should be invoked, such as inputting inaccurate information, and a check should be done to ensure that the errors were properly logged in the database. All of these tests should be performed to be able to troubleshoot later on if need be. These test cases should check that information logged matches the events and errors that were invoked. 
How does it cover the targeted features?: This test will cover several targeted features and cover different functionalities of the OTTS. This test will ensure that the several interfaces, such as the login interface, is compatible with the database and is able to accurately pull information from the database. It supports the functionality that the system needs to be able to support administrator mode due to the troubleshooting this test case will cover. It also supports the functionality that the OTTS needs to interface with the database, which includes file storage. It covers the error-handling features of the OTTS and verifies that the system logs accurate information. 
10.) ConfirmationEmail
Description: This test case will verify that all users will be sent a confirmation email immediately after completing a ticket purchase. The confirmation email should include all the accurate billing information and the information regarding the tickets purchased. It should include the movie and seats selected by the user and the form of payment used. The test will ensure that the confirmation email is sent to the email provided by the user and that it is promptly delivered to the user. This test case is a functionality test to ensure the confirmation email function is accurate. 
Test Sets/Vectors: There are several tests that can be done to ensure that the confirmation email function works accurately. An approach to this test case can be to purchase different tickets and seats complete a full transaction and verify that a confirmation email was sent to the user. This should test if the confirmation email was sent to the email provided in the test case or to the email used to login to the OTTS. Another test should verify that the confirmation email provides relevant and accurate information regarding the tickets purchased, the seats selected, and the billing information. Another test should also confirm that the email was sent immediately upon completing the transaction. 
How does it cover the targeted features?: This test case covers several different targeted features within the OTTS and tests different interfaces. The test will access the payment interface and ensure that it is able to access the account information of the user stored in the database. It covers the functional requirement of the ticket payment system. The ticket payment system functionality should output the confirmation email to the users and this test case ensures that this functionality works accordingly by checking if a confirmation email is received and that the correct user data is pulled from the database. 
